---
layout: post
title: "Classes & Workshops"
date: 2020-04-19 20:37:13 +0600
tags: classes
categories: [classes]
author_name: "Transform Tutoring"
post_image: "/assets/images/book.svg"
permalink: "/classes"
---


Transform Tutoring is proud to pair your student with some of the Bay Area's most gifted teachers. We offer __summer classes__ from June - August and __mini-classes__ from August - June.

## About Summer Classes

At Transform, we are strong proponents of individualized teaching. 


All of our workshops & summer classes have __no more than 3 students__. The average enrollment for classes is __2 students__. 

We are __strong proponents of small group classes__ for 2 key reasons:

1. __Engagement:__ Most classes have 10+ students enrolled, and as a result, students can be found zoning out, on their phones, or simply not getting the full value of a class. <br><br> At Transform, we create a curriculum where our teachers __actively engage students with questions for the full session duration__, to ensure they receive the full attention and help they need. __Classes operate more like 1-on-1 tutoring, rather than a class.__
<br><br><br>
2. __Student Learning:__ Students need a comfortable environment to ask questions about content they don't understand. In a class with 10+ students, most students simply __don't__ speak up and ask questions. In a 1-on-2 environment where the teacher actively engages the students, our students do in fact speak up, resulting in a better learning experience.
<br><br><br>

# Summer Class Descriptions

Below you can find our summer class offerings for 2020. 

Please email us at contact@transformtutoring.org for pricing information and to sign up.

## Standardized Testing 

Getting into the nation's top university depends heavily on a student's SAT score. 

Often, students may be scoring well in one section (e.g. Math) while performing poorly in another section (e.g. Reading/Writing). We have options which allow students to register for only the areas they need help in, at the level that they need: 

* SAT Reading/Writing/Essay
* SAT Math
* Advanced Students: Path to a Perfect Reading / Writing Score
* Advanced Students: Path to a Perfect Math Score

## Academic Courses: 
* Algebra I
* Algebra II/Trig
* Precalculus
* Calculus AB
* Calculus BC
* Statistics
* Physics
* Chemistry
* Biology
* Environmental Science
* English
* US History
* World History
* Economics
* Spanish
* French
* Latin

## Special Interest Courses 

Different cohorts available for all age groups K-12. 

### Human Genetics

Course focused on human genetics. We will (1) review basic biology concepts, (2) talk about how human genetics relates to human health, and (3) discuss how recent advances in human genetics impacts our society. Learned skills: Technical reading; analyses of a scientific topics; rhetorical analysis essay

### Microbiology

Course focused on the tiny organisms that interact with us. We will (1) discuss basic microbiological concepts, (2) learn about microbiology and food, and (3) learn about the human microbiota. Learned skills: How to read scientific literature; core understanding of microbiology; research skills

### Science and Society

Enrichment course focused on the overlap between science and society. We will begin to understand the social, legal, historical, and policy issues stemming from research and technological advances. Seminar-style course. Learned skills: advanced reading, writing, and analysis of complex topics.

### Web Development

Students will learn how to create dynamic web pages using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript--essential parts of any website, and a backbone from which they can create even more advanced projects. They will learn how to apply essential programming language concepts, select a web hosting service relevant for their use case, and publish their webpages for a public audience. They will develop a model for creating their own personal or business website, and learn fundamentals of design and layout. Learned skills: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, design fundamentals, web hosting, introductory UI principles.

### Synthetic Biology

The course begins with an exploration of the components of DNA and how it dictates the creation of protein structures within a cell through the processes of transcription and translation. Then, we will explore analogs in engineering by examining biological circuits as combinations of biomolecule-based transformers, capacitors, and other components and design circuits that would accomplish various tasks relevant to the real world. Students will choose a real-world problem (e.g. detecting contaminants in drinking water) and design a synthetic biology system to address it. Learned skills: principles of genetics, principles of engineering, design thinking. 

### Physical Computing with Arduino

The course will begin with teaching principles of programming and hardware through hands-on experimentation with Arduino components. No prior knowledge of programming or hardware is necessary. Learned skills: basic programming principles such as control flow, loops, and variable types; hardware fundamentals including sensory inputs and outputs; design thinking


## Classroom to Career

Our Classroom to Career series will cover the steps from high school to college and beyond to familiarize students with what skills, knowledge, and proactive steps are involved in the career of their choice. 

* Classroom to Career: Biotechnology
* Classroom to Career: Neuroscience
* Classroom to Career: Computer Science 
* Classroom to Career: Law
* Classroom to Career: Engineering
* Classroom to Career: Medicine 


## High School Readiness 

### High School Readiness for 6th Graders
In this course, 6th - 8th graders learn essential study habits for high school preparedness, from organizational skills to proper textbook use, to advanced study techniques.

## Capstone Project

In our Capstone Project series, students ideate, outline, revise, plan, and execute concrete steps toward a stellar project, startup, or initiative that illustrates their passion in their field of choice. Students will devise their own academic, leadership, and volunteer opportunities in their area of passion. 

* Capstone Projects in Biotechnology
* Capstone Projects in Neuroscience
* Capstone Projects in Computer Science 
* Capstone Projects in Law
* Capstone Projects in Engineering
* Capstone Projects in Medicine
* Career Conversations: Picking a Passion

## College Admissions  

College Admissions Essays: Crafting Your Story From Your Passions
Internship Admissions Essays: Crafting Your Story From Your Passions
